PUPL.md, before:

# PUPL - Paid Use Permissive License

### Summary
for software offered under these terms
- non-production use is free, as is production use on up to 10 cores
- you may need to pay for use beyond that, but prices are capped at a maximum and non-discriminatory
- you can freely copy, modify and distribute the software
- if you redistribute under more restrictive terms, the 10 free cores don't apply


### The License

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

- the above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software
- they agree to the terms of this agreement


### The Agreement
This agreement is between you and the copyright owner.

You agree to acquire a use-license or equivalent from the copyright owner for production use of the Software, i.e., use for the sake of the data produced by running the Software, as opposed to for the sake of understanding or configuring the Software. Permission to use the Software for other purposes is hereby granted.

You agree to present to a potential recipient of a distribution of the Software the above copyright notice and these license terms.

If a work that you distribute, that in whole or in part contains or is derived from the Software or any part thereof, is accompanied by the complete corresponding source code or an equivalent offer of such, each portion of both licensed to the recipient under either:
 - this license, at no additional per-use cost, or
 - a license compatible with the GNU GPLv3

then use-license responsibilities may be left solely to the recipient, who may apply any use-license or equivalent (including those acquired at zero cost) to satisfy their use-license requirements.
Otherwise, you agree to acquire on the recipient's behalf, or verify they possess, an applicable use-license.



### Assurances
The copyright owner agrees:
- to specify a fixed strike price
- to publish per-annum and lifetime full prices, not to exceed 1 times and 10 times the strike price respectively, subject to monthly changes
- to issue use-licenses (per-annum and lifetime) purchasable without further restriction at full price (or, at your option, the respective strike prices) that will:
    - be transferable
    - be renewable (for per-annum, even with lapses) at that original price each year
    - without lapses, entitle purchase and renewal of 4 additional units at that original price (these units don't entitle additional unit rights, but otherwise act as full price units)
    - for purchases of the latest version, apply to use of any version released within 1 year of original purchase or older
    - credit the greater of the current or the paid price of your version towards upgrade to a later version
    - permit the holder to use the Software for production on, at the holder's choice, either a single core (i.e., an independent actual processing unit) or the computational equivalent of a single core of a 2015 intel core i5 6600, for a period of 1 year (per-annum) or the term of the copyright (lifetime), starting at the time of purchase
- to allow all use-licenses purchased at non-zero-cost to be applied equally to use of either the original work or any derivative work, though derivative works may add additional restrictions

- to grant a perpetual zero-cost non-transferable waiver for production use on up to 10 cores (independent actual processing units) of software licensed under these terms; this waiver not to be combined by multiple executions of this agreement, whether for the same or other software

- that, in the event that the copyright owner is unable to or fails to issue in a timely manner a use-license consistent with these terms at your request and attempted payment, you are granted non-transferable permission to use the Software on any number of cores for any purpose for 2 years,
and, if you place full non-zero payment in escrow, all the rights you would have been entitled to had the use-licenses been issued

- that if this non-issue condition persists for 2 consecutive years, during which you make reasonable unsuccessful attempts to acquire use-licenses, or the Software is publicly abandoned, or the strike price is unspecified or zero, the copyright owner grants you a license to the Software under the terms of the MIT license and transferable unlimited permission to use the Software for any purpose for the term of the copyright

- that if you have made reasonable effort to comply with these terms and upon learning of a deviation from them rendered any payment that would have achieved compliance, you shall be considered to have complied


You accept that you are entitled to no other relief if the copyright owner is unable to or chooses not to issue use-licenses consistent with these terms.

By exercising any of the permissions granted by this license, you signify your agreement to these terms.
Your rights under this license will terminate automatically without notice if you fail to comply with any terms of this license.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.



copyright nqzero 2016

Commit message:

cogit - sync from takashi, month advance, summary

PUPL.md, after:

# PUPL - Paid Use Permissive License

### Summary
for software offered under these terms
- non-production use is free, as is production use on up to 10 cores
- you may need to pay for use beyond that, but prices are capped at a maximum and non-discriminatory
- you can freely copy, modify and distribute the software
- if you distribute a derivative work under more restrictive terms, eg without source, you need to pay for use (as above) on your users' behalf


### The License

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

- the above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software
- they agree to the terms of this agreement


### The Agreement
This agreement is between you and the copyright owner.

You agree to acquire a use-license or equivalent from the copyright owner for production use of the Software, i.e., use for the sake of the data produced by running the Software, as opposed to for the sake of understanding or configuring the Software. Permission to use the Software for other purposes is hereby granted.

You agree to present to a potential recipient of a distribution of the Software the above copyright notice and these license terms.

If a work that you distribute, that in whole or in part contains or is derived from the Software or any part thereof, is accompanied by the complete corresponding source code or an equivalent offer of such, each portion of both licensed to the recipient under either:
 - this license, at no additional per-use cost, or
 - a license compatible with the GNU GPLv3

then use-license responsibilities may be left solely to the recipient, who may apply any use-license or equivalent (including those acquired at zero cost) to satisfy their use-license requirements.
Otherwise, you agree to acquire on the recipient's behalf, or verify they possess, an applicable use-license.



### Assurances
The copyright owner agrees:
- to specify a fixed strike price
- to publish per-annum and lifetime full prices, not to exceed 1 times and 10 times the strike price respectively, and to announce changes a month in advance
- to issue use-licenses (per-annum and lifetime) purchasable without further restriction at full price (or, at your option, the respective strike prices) that will:
    - be transferable
    - be renewable (for per-annum, even with lapses) at that original price each year
    - without lapses, entitle purchase and renewal of 4 additional units at that original price (these units don't entitle additional unit rights, but otherwise act as full price units)
    - for purchases of the latest version, apply to use of any version released within 1 year of original purchase or older
    - credit the greater of the current or the paid price of your version towards upgrade to a later version
    - permit the holder to use the Software for production on, at the holder's choice, either a single core (i.e., an independent actual processing unit) or the computational equivalent of a single core of a 2015 intel core i5 6600, for a period of 1 year (per-annum) or the term of the copyright (lifetime), starting at the time of purchase
- to allow all use-licenses purchased at non-zero-cost to be applied equally to use of either the original work or any derivative work, though derivative works may add additional restrictions

- to grant a perpetual zero-cost non-transferable waiver for production use on up to 10 cores (independent actual processing units) of software licensed under these terms; this waiver not to be combined by multiple executions of this agreement, whether for the same or other software

- that, in the event that the copyright owner is unable to or fails to issue in a timely manner a use-license consistent with these terms at your request and attempted payment, you are granted non-transferable permission to use the Software on any number of cores for any purpose for 2 years,
and, if you place full non-zero payment in escrow, all the rights you would have been entitled to had the use-licenses been issued

- that if this non-issue condition persists for 2 consecutive years, during which you make reasonable unsuccessful attempts to acquire use-licenses, or the Software is publicly abandoned, or the strike price is unspecified or zero, the copyright owner grants you a license to the Software under the terms of the MIT license and transferable unlimited permission to use the Software for any purpose for the term of the copyright

- that if you have made reasonable effort to comply with these terms and upon learning of a deviation from them rendered any payment that would have achieved compliance, you shall be considered to have complied


You accept that you are entitled to no other relief if the copyright owner is unable to or chooses not to issue use-licenses consistent with these terms.

By exercising any of the permissions granted by this license, you signify your agreement to these terms.
Your rights under this license will terminate automatically without notice if you fail to comply with any terms of this license.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.



copyright nqzero 2016
